We're not replacing the grudges
that weren't forgiven.
So those are the same ones as well, right?
So what it would be really great to do is
to say to a function, if all of your props
are the same as they were last time,
maybe you don't rerender, right?
You have nothing new.
There's nothing for you to do here.
Take a load off, right?
And so
React gives us a bunch of ways to do that.
And we'll talk about why it would
have been slightly problematic
before we did this refactor in a second.
So React has a few different
ways of doing this.
It has react.memo.
Because they're just, these cases,
they're just functions, right?
react.memo takes some function component
and returns you one that says,
if it receives the same props,
just don't render it.
So we can wrap functions in that one.
We also have two hooks,
only one of which we're gonna use,
the two of them kind of do the same thing.
There's useCallback.
And there is useMemo.
These have, they're very similar
with one slight difference.
useMemo will call the function,
it will call the functions as dependencies
haven't changed, right,
it will not call the function again.
useCallback will give you a new
function that you can call.
Right, so it gives you the function
rather than the result.
So we'll go, let's go ahead and
do this really quick refactoring.
I'll tell you why switching to this
reducer pattern gave us the ability to
do this.
So real quickly, we'll go in and
we will wrap NewGrudge in react.memo.
And what I would love to caution
you against is just throwing
everything in react.memo, right?
Because the act of checking to see
if the props have changed is work.
My golden rule for performance is that not
doing stuff is faster than doing stuff.
If you throw a react.memo
around everything,
even if the prompts are changing all
the time, you are asking it to check,
which means you've slowed down
performance by trying to be fancy, right?
On the other hand, if you do get to
skip out on a lot of renders, well,
then react.memo has saved you work because
not rendering is faster than rendering.
So we know that this onSubmit in
this case is add grudge, right?
If we're gonna get the same
function every time,
we're not currently, you're gonna see
this doesn't work originally, right,
then we don't need to
necessarily rerender it, right?
If the grudges change,
this doesn't need to know.
And then the individual grudge, yeah,
if that grudge has changed, sure.
But if it's one of the unforgiven ones,
it's the same one.
Now, if we do this,
We're gonna notice that it doesn't work.
That'd be great, thanks.
So if we go ahead and I click,
you can see them all rerender again,
including Rendering New Grudge.
Right, cuz there's another part here.
If we look very closely,
the culprit, once again,
is our good friend JavaScript, right?
We are defining a new function for
addGrudge, and for toggleForgiveness,
every single time.
So it is a different addGrudge,
getting past the new grudge on every
single render of the application.
It is a different
toggleForgiveness getting passed to
the individual grudge every time.
So react.memo's like, yeah, yeah,
yeah, this is a different function.
Well, it does the same thing, right?
But we have to tell JavaScript that,
otherwise it doesn't do anything.
So in this case, much like useAFact,
we say useCallback, which,
if it gets the same dependencies,
will return the same function reference.
In this point, the only thing that this
uses from the outside world is dispatch.
Right, and here we do the same thing.
Cool, and now we should see is that
we haven't included useCallback.
So now if I forgive one, you can see here,
let me actually clear so
we can see a little bit better.
Only the forgiven grudge
has been rerendered.
NewGrudge didn't rerender,
none of the other grudges rerendered,
only the one that we cared
about rerendered, right?
Because dispatch didn't change,
which means addGrudge and
toggleForgiveness didn't change.
So you might be asking,
why couldn't we do this previously?
Well, if you look at addGrudge and
toggleForgiveness with useState,
they both rely on the current grudges,
right, which are changing.
There's a new array in the case of
toggleForgiveness and addGrudge,
which would have invalidated
the dependencies in useCallback,
cuz it would have required, it would have
depended on grudges and set grudges.
Any changes to that array, cuz we are
replacing it to make React do its thing,
would have invalidated the useCallback and
given us a new function every time.
Which means we could have react.memo'd
up and down the entire component tree,
it wouldn't have done anything.
We could've wrapped everything in there
because it would have generated cuz of
dependency change.
The idea that we separated all of our
state from the actual components and
that all we needed was dispatch.
We didn't need to know
about the current grudges,
that was handled in the reducer, right?
We just needed to announce
that something happened.
And the function for announcing that
something had happened could actually be
the same function memory, which allowed
us to optimize performance really
easily because we separated our state
management from our component hierarchy,
and made things arguably
in code more complex, but
arguably a little more
elegant at the same time.